and of Westminster, and of certain
English Pontificals.

* * *

A correspondent of the _Times_, writing from
Jerusalem, November 15, complains of the
wholesale destruction of historical monuments
which is permitted by the Turkish Government.
He says: "The following may serve
as examples. Two years ago a singularly
interesting historical treasure was found in
Jerusalem, the Cufic inscription at the entrance
of the small mosque of Omar, once
standing within the arcaded porch of Constantine's
Basilica of the Holy Sepulchre, and
dating from the seventh century. It was cut
on a stone of the original Roman building,
and therefore _in situ_{:.foreign}. On being found it was
voted a mystery, because the small mosque
of Omar was rebuilt on a quite different site
after the Crusades, and this fact is unknown
to modern natives of Jerusalem. However,
to please various parties the old stone was
torn from its position, and the inscription
was sawn off and sent to Constantinople for
better investigation. Its present fate is unknown.
The interesting and well-preserved
Church of St. Jeremiah of the thirteenth century
at Abu Gosh, near Jerusalem, has been
presented to the French Government, and a
proposed 'restoration' is now on foot. An
article in the _Rassegna Nazionale_{:.book-title} of Florence
last August gives an account of how it is to
be rebuilt in the interests of Catholicism as
opposed to the Orthodox Church, but no
mention is made of the archæological interest
which will be completely destroyed by such
a 'restoration.' To-day a friend, returning
from a ride on the other side of Jordan, has
given me a deplorable account of what is
happening to the hitherto marvellously preserved
cities of the Decapolis. The colonies
recently planted in that region have selected
the most famous cities for the purpose of
turning them into stone quarries. Gerash
(Gerasa) is filled with a Mahomedan colony
which is provided with carts (a very modern
innovation in the Levant), and the work of
destruction is proceeding in a methodical
manner. The famous 'street of columns' is
disappearing before the picks of the settlers,
and the columns are being broken up for
building material. The curious circular
colonnade at one end of the city is not yet
touched. At Amman many of the well-preserved
Roman monuments have disappeared
during the past year. The great theatre is
now nearly gone, and the carved stonework
of the temples and other public buildings is
being treated in the style of the unfortunate
remains at Famagusta, to which I referred
on a former occasion; it is being defaced, or
rather 'refaced,' with new dressing before
being re-used to build the squalid huts of
modern days. Cæsarea and Sebaste are examples
of what has been done during the past
ten years in the way of destruction, perhaps
better known to your readers, but the same
system is now being carried out on a truly
colossal scale all round the Levant. It would
be difficult to enumerate the cities, towns,
castles, and isolated monuments which are
vanishing with the nineteenth century."

* * * 

During the week ended December 8 Messrs.
Sotheby sold many autograph letters of interest.
The following is extracted from an
amusing epistle to Mrs. Garrick by the
famous player Kitty Clive. It is dated
"Clive's Den, September 22, 1775," and
was sold for £18:

> "I delivered your message to Mrs. Franks,
> and she seemed quite happy in being sure
> she shall have the pleasure of seeing the
> Garricks' 'Læna.' She said everybody
> admired Mrs. Garrick's character who had
> heard of her; my reply was natural and
> wise; that everybody must love Mrs. Garrick
> when they was acquainted with her; I speak
> by experience; I must not say one word to
> the dear man (Garrick) to-day, for I know he
> is so busy in moulding up his new Pope for
> to-morrow, that he would snap as he did at
> his Jew when he held King Lear's map the
> wrong end upwards; I will not wish she may
> be shocking; but I will wish my poor pope
> was brought back to the Castle of St. Angelo.
> I have read of there being three popes at
> one time. I believe the Garrick has at
> present twice that number, but there was not
> then, nor will be now, but one right pope;
> I wou'd give fivety pounds (and I am but
> poor) that he thought so to. I have settled
> with Mrs. Franks for next Thursday if it will
> be agreeable to you; if not, any other day
> you will apoint I am sure will be so to her,
> and I desire that you and Mr. Garrick wou'd