houses in this historic thoroughfare --- is
especially interesting from the fact that
towards the latter part of last century it was
owned by John Hunter, the renowned surgeon,
who built at the rear his famous
museum of comparative anatomy. One of
the first of the osteological treasures to find
a place within its walls was the skeleton of
O'Brien, the Irish giant, which is now in the
museum of the Royal College of Surgeons at
Lincoln's Inn. One of Hunter's neighbours
was Hogarth, who resided "on the east side
of Leicester Fields," at the Golden Head,
which afterwards developed into the Sab-
loni^re Hotel, and is now the familiar building
at the corner of the square known as
Archbishop Tenison's School. Hunter's
remains were originally buried in the adjoining
church of St. Martin-in-the-Fields, and
in the square itself his memory is still perpetuated
by one of the busts which were
executed at the instance of the late Baron
Grant.

*^ ^ ^*

Mr. Nimmo announces that the following
subjects will be included in his "Semitic
Series," the first volume of which we reviewed
some months ago. There is to be
a volume on Phoenicia, treating of history
and government, colonies, trade, and religion;
one on Arabian discoveries and Arabian
religion and history until the time of the
Prophet; one on Arabic literature and
science since the Prophet's time; and one
on the influence of Semitic art and mythology
on Western nations.

&lt;j|(&gt; &lt;jj(&gt; tj|(&gt;

It is reported from Carthage that the remains
of the ancient theatre of the Oddon, against
which Tertullian fulminated, have been
found. It is semicircular in form, and bears
many traces of vanished splendour- Several
statues of Graeco-Roman origin, with the
remains of colouring visible, with some portrait
busts of the Caesars, have been found
on the site, and have been sent to the
Museum of Bardo.

*^ ^ ^*

Mr. P. E. Roberts, who has edited the second
volume of the late Sir William Hunter's
*History of hidia,* has been able to verify
some interesting facts concerning the connection
of descendants of Cromwell and

Milton with the East India Company. The
reconstruction of the company was one of
the Protector's great achievements. His
grandson, Sir John Russell (son of Cromwell's
youngest daughter), was Governor of
Bengal during the years 1711-13. His
great-grandson, also in the female line, Sir
Henry Frankland, was Governor of the same
Presidency in 1726-28. Mr. Roberts also
says that "another great-grandson of Cromwell,
Sir Francis Russell, seventh Baronet,
was a member of the Bengal Council," and
that the Protector's descendants long formed
one of the powerful family connections of
the East India Company. Mr. Roberts has
derived his information from Mrs. Frankland-
Russell-Astley, of Checkers Court, the
present representative of one of the Cromwellian
branches. Milton's grandson, Caleb
Clarke, filled the office of " Parish Clerk " of
Madras, where he died in 1719. The fact
is recorded in Professor Masson's *Life of
Miltofi.*

*^ ^ ^*

During recent excavations at Pompeii a
magnificent bronze statue of Grecian workmanship,
4 feet high, has been brought to
light. The statue, which strongly resembles
the celebrated "Idolino degli Uffizi " of
Florence, is estimated to be worth 20,000.
It is in perfect preservation, and seems to
have been designed to support a lamp in
some villa outside the walls of Pompeii. It
is the most important discovery made at
Pompeii for the last thirty years.


{::comment} «« end notes-of-the-month »» {::/comment}
{::comment} «« begin englands-oldest-handicrafts »» {::/comment}

(!En0lanD's flDlDest ^anDicrafts.

**By Isabel Suart Robson.**{.scaps}

**The Potter's Craft.**{.scaps}

" No handicraftman's art can with our art compare;
We potters make our pots of what we potters
are."

OMPARED with pottery, all our
handicrafts are but of yesterday.
How it first became known to
man that some products of the
earth were made edible by cookery and
others vastly improved we shall never know,
