Misterie of the Stone ware vulgarly called
Cologne Ware." His success was sufficient
to entitle him to an extension of the patent
fourteen years later, and the existing speci¬mens
of his work are a convincing proof of
such high artistic and technical abilities that
his name will always be entitled to honour
as a distinguished pioneer in this beautiful
industry. He is said not only to have de¬stroyed
all his note-books, but to have
buried all his models, tools, and moulds
in some secret hiding-place of his manufac¬turing,
that no one might avail himself of
the secret he had so painfully discovered.
Very securely he managed this, for excava¬tions
have never yet brought the hiding-
place to light. Some years ago, after taking
down some old buildings, the workmen,
digging for new foundations, discovered a
vaulted chamber or cellar, which had been
firmly walled up, and was filled with
numbers of "gray beards," "bellarmines,"
and various other vessels, undoubtedly of
Dwight's manufacture. Two very tiny cups
or pans for artist's paint, one of translucent,
mottled, unglazed porcelain, the other more
like glazed earthenware, were found a few
years ago, embedded 12 feet below the sur¬face,
near Wandsworth Bridge, and were
probably relics of Dwight's frequent ex¬periments
in body and glaze.

The goods now produced at Fulham are
glazed and unglazed earthenware, brown
ware, white inside, known as Sutherland
ware, and terra-cotta, in which very beautiful
vases, statues, and stoves are produced.
The making of china was added to the
other branches of the industry during the
year 1873, and has done much to establish
a fresh fame for the Fulham works. In
body the china is made from Dwight's
original recipe, and has therefore a distinct
historic interest attached to it beyond its
artistic merits.

The earliest English dishes, cups, and
" tygs " --- two - handled drinking vessels
popular in the sixteenth and seventeenth
centuries---were of red ware, and one of the
favourite devices for varying the plain sur¬face
was the use of a second clay of different
colour put on by a process known as " slip-
work." A thin creamy mixture of clay and
water was dropped or trailed from a spouted
vessel upon the piece to be decorated, some¬what
after the manner in which a bride-cake
is ornamented by the confectioner. This
style of decoration was, we have good reason
to believe, in use at a very early period,
though we have no specimens dated further
back than the sixteenth century. It is
especially associated with " Wrotham," a
ware made in Kent, which county may [be
said to compete with Staffordshire" for the
distinction of being the' first; to employ slip-
decoration.

Elaborately ornamented dishes, bearing
the names of the makers, were among the
most characteristic pottery of this period.
These dishes, evidently made for ornament
rather than use, were usually about 17 or
18 inches across and 3 inches deep, made
of common red clay with a wash of pipeclay
on the inner surface. This white ground
formed a basis for intricate designs in red
slip of various shades, and as the whole was
glazed with lead a yellowish tinge was given
to the background. At the time Dwight
was taking out his patent at Fulham Thomas
Toft, of Stafford, was the chief maker of these
curious dishes, and his designs, taken from
