missals, coins, royal arms, and needlework are
often very beautiful, though more frequently
grotesque. A curious use of "slip" was in the
lettering of tombstones. In several churchyards
in the Potteries, notably at Burslem
and Wolstanton, earthenware headstones in
red and brown may be seen, with inscriptions
and ornaments put on in white
slip. The dates of these memorials range
from 1718 to 1767, though one was found
as late as 1828. Mural tablets of similar
make, bearing the name of the builder, were
often inserted in the walls of houses. One
has been preserved in the British Museum
made of coarse clay, covered with white slip
and glazed with lead to give it a yellowish
hue. The date 1695 upon it is surmounted
by the initials E. E., accompanied by some
floral ornamentation, and below is the old
distich:

> "When this V. C.\\
> Remember Mee."
{:.inscription}

Although almost every part of England
has been able to claim pottery as an industry
of its own, North Staffordshire is
essentially the home of ceramic art; and it
is interesting to know that the same bed of
clay which to-day produces material for articles
of daily use produced 1,500 years ago the
vessels for the tables of the inhabitants of
the then great neighbouring city of Uriconium.
Professor Jewitt tells us that in the excavations
which have been undertaken on the
site of this ruined city immense quantities
of fragments of pottery have been found,
and, with the exception of the Samian and
Durobrivian ware, it is not too much to
say that the whole has been made in the
Severn Valley.

The Potteries of to-day include a district
of almost twenty square miles---a restless,
prosperous centre of industrial life, the germ
of which lies so far in the past as to be
almost untraceable. We have to go back to
prehistoric times, when the Cornairi---a warlike
tribe which made pots on the banks of
the Tiber---for some strange reason travelled
to this country and settled in mid-England,
and carried on their old craft. Since that
time pottery has always existed there as a
local industry, though not infrequently it has
yielded so little profit that other trades have
had to be combined with it. We find a
certain Thomas Wedgwood, in the sixteenth
century, combining farming with potmaking,
and his son of the same name being innkeeper
as well as potter. It was but a
poorly conducted craft in those old days.
"In wild districts of the moorlands," says
Wedgwood's biographer, "a pot-work would
be carried on by the joint exertions of a
single man and his son or a labourer. The
one dug the necessary clay, the other
fashioned and fired the ware, whilst the
mother or daughter, when the goods were
ready, loaded the panniered asses and took
her way to the distant town and hamlet till
her merchandise was sold. She then returned
with shop-goods to the solitary pot-work.
In places of this kind were produced
only the coarsest description of wares, such
as crocks, pitchers, slab-like baking-dishes,
and porringers, partially glazed with lead-ore.
Their owners were a rude and lawless
set, half poachers, half gipsies, who met at
fairs and markets, and occasionally held
drunken revels in the wilder parts of their
own districts. As years went on things improved
a little; the ablest men became
master-potters, who sent their sons to study
at Dutch potteries that they might gather
experience for the home industry, and dissatisfaction
with home methods, the first
step towards improvement, began to stir
throughout potmaking districts."

The advent of two German immigrants
named Elers had an immense though not
immediate effect upon the future productions
of Staffordshire potters. They came
to England either with or directly after William
of Orange, and settled at Bradwell Wood,
near Burslem, where the fine ferruginous
clay was well adapted for the red ware they
made.

In this secluded spot they carried on their
craft with utmost secrecy, employing the
most stupid persons they could find to do
the drudgery, and locking them up whilst
at work, always reserving the finer parts for
their own manipulation in secret. They
managed to produce ware so superior in
body and finish to any then seen in Staffordshire
that a not unnatural curiosity was
aroused. No one jumped to the conclusion
that a great part of the foreigners' secret
lay "in infinite pains." No attention had