of such large results, must be mainly
attributed to the labour and genius of one
man. To Josiah Wedgwood English pottery
owes an enormous debt. He found it
a depressed industry, without sufficient skill
even to carry out its poor pretensions to
beauty, and by unceasing labour, constant
and careful experiments, and persevering research,
he gave it new powers, and raised it
to the dignity of an art.

He came of a race of potters. As early
as t6i2 one Gilbert Wedgwood was settled
at Burslem, and made " butterpots, porringers,
and such things as folks needed,"
and his descendants followed humbly in his
footsteps, until Josiah came with his determined
and much - condemned intention
" to waste time " over ornament and delicacy
of finish, and to indulge in " flights of fancy "
which were distinctly outside the beaten
tracks of the trade, as followed by the men
of Burslem.

Like many another successful man, Wedgwood
began life with the smallest amount of
worldly gear and the scantiest education.
Left an orphan at the early age of ten, the
little lad then entered his brother s pottery,
and in due time was apprenticed as a
"thrower." The work of the "thrower" is
to fashion on the revolving wheel from the
balls of moist clay, weighed and handed
to him by an inferior workman, the earthenware
vessel. This is the first and most
important operation in the making of pots,
and Wedgwood when very young acquired
such skill that he commanded the admiration
of veteran potters. Circumstances,
however, occurred to check his further
career as a thrower. He had, when a child,
been severely attacked by small-pox, which
left him with an incurable disease of the
knee. By this he was so crippled eventually
that the thrower's wheel had to be exchanged
for the moulder's bench. Mr.
Gladstone, in an address at the opening of
the Wedgwood Institute, aptly alluded to
this crisis in the life of the great potter.
"It is not often," he affirmed, "that we
have such palpable occasion to record our
obligations to small-pox. In the wonderful
ways of Providence that disease, which came
to Wedgwood as a twofold scourge, was
probably the occasion of his subsequent
excellence. It prevented him growing up
a vigorous workman, possessed of all his
limbs and knowing right well the use of
them; but it put him upon considering
whether, as he could not be that, he might
not be something else and something
greater. It sent his mind inwards. It
drove him to meditate upon the laws and
secrets of his craft." The first fact Wedgwood
grasped was that beauty ought to go
hand-in-hand with utility, and he applied
himself assiduously to experiments for the
improvement of the wares Staffordshire was
then producing. His earliest effort was an
ornamental teapot, still carefully preserved
at Burslem, and known as " Wedgwood's first
teapot."

After an abortive effort to settle himself
in Stoke with a partner named Harrison,
Wedgwood joined Whieldon, one of the
most eminent potters of that day, and reputed
to be the inventor of "agate" and
"tortoise-shell" ware. Jointly with him,
Wedgwood invented a green, glazed earthenware,
largely used at one time for dessert
services. Josiah Spode, afterwards himself
a master in the potter's art, was one of
Wedgwood's apprentices.

Five years later Wedgwood returned to
his native town, and took a small pottery
known as the Ivy works, where he might
experiment, indulge " flights of fancy," and
" waste time in finish and decoration " with
a free hand.

At this time the best earthenware used
in England was imported from Holland,

B 3
