France, and Germany; but some long¬headed
potters were beginning to believe
that the clay of this country was equally
good, and all that was needed to give an
impetus to improved British trade was perse¬verance
in experiment and courage to strike
out new lines. The fine white china-clay
discovered by Cookworthy had already
proved of utmost value in the manufacture
of porcelain and fine pottery, and Wedgwood
made very practical use of the discovery.
In the year 1763 he perfected a beautiful
creamy-white ware, first produced by Thomas
Astbury without very good results. To

Wedgwood's improved ware Queen Char¬lotte,
who had a warm interest in all home
manufactures, was pleased to give her name.
Wedgwood was appointed " Potter to Her
Majesty," and under such royal favour his
wares found their way into the most in¬fluential
houses of the land, and even
achieved a Continental reputation. Cath¬erine,
Empress of Russia, commissioned
him to make a dinner-service, to consist of
952 pieces, upon each of which was to be
painted a different view of some palace,
country seat, or remarkable spot in the
British Isles. It was to cost ;^3,ooo---a
sum which scarcely paid the potter for the
enormous cost of production---but it was a
splendid advertisement; and when, after
three years' work, the complete service was
displayed at Wedgwood's show-rooms in
Greek Street, Soho, the exhibition proved
one of the most popular sights of London.
For this, as for all his productions, Wedgwood
spared no expense to get beautiful and
artistic designs. Coward, Tassie, Hoskins,
Westmacott, and Flaxman were among the
artists who did not disdain, at his request,
to design ornamentation for plates, cups, or
candlesticks.

The Queen's ware was made with such
ease and expedition that it could be sold
very cheaply, and therefore came into general
use with unusual rapidity. Other potters
soon availed themselves of the invention,
and " Queen's Ware " became the staple
pottery of England. Such adaptation of his
secret only drove Wedgwood to further ex¬periment
and discovery. Black ware, and
jasper, a white porcelain, resembling the
stone from which it takes its name, quickly
followed the white ware. Wedgwood seems
to have been more attached to "jasper"
manufacture than to any other branch of
his artistic craft, and managed to keep the
secret of its production for twelve years.
It was admirably adapted for the production
of cameos, medallion portraits, and all sub¬jects
in bas-relief, the ground being made in
colour throughout, and the raised figures
pure white. Among the first " heads " to
be immortalized in jasper were those of
George III. and Queen Charlotte, the
Empress of Russia, and the inventor's most
faithful supporters, Earl Gower and the
Duke of Bridgewater.

*{To be concluded)*


{::comment} «« end englands-oldest-handicrafts »» {::/comment}
{::comment} «« begin quarterly-notes-on-roman-britain »» {::/comment}

IXuarterlp Jl3otes on JRoman
TBtitain.

By F. Haverfield, M.A., F.S.A.

No. XXXIII.

N my last article I described some
of the principal discoveries of
Roman remains made in these
islands during the last six months.
I now continue the narrative where I then
