left it, and shall begin with what I then
barely mentioned, the fort at Gelligaer.

Gelligaer is a village about fourteen miles
north of Cardiff, standing on a high ridge
between two of the deep valleys which fissure
the hill country of this district. From it an
ancient track, supposed to be a Roman road,
runs further north towards the Roman fort
near Brecon, and in it, close to the Vicarage,
are the remains of another Roman fort. It
would seem that there ran from the Roman
fort at Cardiff, just as there ran from that
near Neath, a Roman mountain-road connecting
their coast-road with the upper valley
of the Usk, and insuring peace in a difficult
and intricate region. The fort itself of Gelligaer
is an almost exact square, measuring
about 400 feet from east to west, and about
380 from north to south. The angles, as
usual, are rounded; the gates, as usual, four;
while the ramparts present an unusual feature,
being constructed of an earthen mound
about 10 feet thick, faced on either side with
stone, and containing turrets or guard-
chambers in the thickness of the earthwork.
The interior resembles very closely the forts
of the Roman wall and of Northern England
generally; it is full of stone buildings of the
types there familiar, and has a proper
*Frcetorium* (if that be the correct title) in the
centre. The masonry in general is rough,
and the minor finds are not very numerous.
Plainly, the little fort on the hill-top was not
so heavily garrisoned, nor probably so long
occupied, as the larger *castella* of the north.
It is, however, of very great interest, and the
Cardiff Naturalists' Society has done excellent
work in undertaking its excavation.
The work is to be continued and completed
next summer, and the full account of the
whole, which will doubtless follow, should
be a report of very real archaeological interest
and value. I am myself specially indebted
to members of the society for facilitating and
assisting a visit which I was able to pay to
the spot in October.

Passing further north, I have to record
the discovery in the summer of a well-preserved
kiln with much pottery and potters'
waste at Stockton Heath, near Warrington,
Cheshire. An interesting detailed account
of the find was contributed by Mr. Thomas
May to the *Warrington Guardian* of July 30;

the objects found are, I understand, to be
preserved in the Warrington Museum as
specimens of local manufacture.

A few finds have also been made in
Chester, in particular an additional length
of the inscribed lead piping, bearing the
name of Agricola, to which I have already
alluded in these notes (No. XXX.). The
find completes a second panel bearing the
inscription, but it is merely a duplicate of
that previously known in full. One or two
more pieces of Roman buildings, or, rather,
of foundations, have been also recorded in
different parts of the town, but no definite
account can be given of these fragments.

At Melandra Castle and Ribchester, both
scenes of activity in 1899, nothing, I believe,
has been done during the year 1900. It is
highly desirable that both these excavations
should be continued, but I must add that
both are somewhat technical and difficult
works, and it is better that they should be
postponed than imperfectly directed. Mr.
Garstang meanwhile has issued a brief interim
report of the work done at Ribchester
in 1899.

An interesting little find, a leaden *glans
*or sling bullet, is reported from the immediate
vicinity of the Roman fort at Ambleside. It
was found, as Mr. H. S. Cowper tells me,
rather deep in a sewerage cutting about
120 yards north of the north-east angle of
the fort. It is uninscribed, and weighs a
trifle under 44 grammes; it should be compared
with *glans* found in 1897 at Birdos-
wald and the numerous specimens found by
the Scotch Society of Antiquaries at Birrens-
wark in 1898 (see these Notes, No. XXVII.).
What is perhaps a Roman road has also
been found close to the Ambleside fort.

The excavations on the line of the Roman
Wall were duly continued in the past summer.
In Cumberland some useful though not
showy results were obtained by tracing the
Une of the Vallum over about a mile and a
half where its course was previously quite
unknown, between Lanercost and Walton.
In Northumberland a startling discovery was
made at Chesters, the Roman fort in the
North Tyne Valley. Here it was ascertained
that the existing fort stands on the top of an
earlier frontier line, the fosse of which was
filled up when the existing fort was built
