a central pillar with four shafts.1 These are
clustered, and the centre pillar has no base,
but the four corner shafts have capitals and
good bases. These five clustered pillars

Stand upon a moulded octagonal base,
5I inches deep, and this again rests upon a
square plinth, t ornamented at the corners.
The material used in the construction of this
font is a free stone brought from the quarries
at Pentewan, near St. Austell.

The eight panels are filled with sculpture,
and some of them are] of an incongruous
character. The eastern face was once a
representation of the crucifixion, but it has
been sadly mutilated. The figure of the
Saviour is 12 inches high, while those of the
Blessed Virgin and St. John are 3 inches
less. *I* St. Mary is^' represented with long
hair.

A knight on a small horse ยง with a horn||
held in his right hand and a hawk resting on
his right wrist, is carved on the south-eastern
panel. A dogH is leading the way, and the
knight is depicted with a long sword and a
prick-spur, while his horn is suspended by a
strap round his shoulder, and he is shown in
the act of blowing it vigorously.

A hare2 is carved on the north-western
face, and a dog* is biting its hind quarters.
Below are two small grotesque heads, and
the Rev. Ernest Drewe, M.A., the Vicar of
Lostwithiel, suggests that the mutilated
object! above may have been anpther dog.

The head of a BishopJ with a mitre and
leaves protruding from the corners of his mouth
and out of his ears adorns the north-eastern
panel. It seems not unlikely that this
carving is suggestive of holiness, in contra-distinction
to the south-western panel, where
the hideous creature with snakes resting
upon its head is the emblem of sin. The
Rev. Ernest Drewe, M.A., considers that the
Bishop's mitred head is probably intended
for St. Bartholomew, in whose name the
church is dedicated, and he draws attention
to another carving in the church where this
saint is represented with a mitre on his
head.

The northern face is adorned with two
lions ยง *passant gardant.* The lion *passant
gardant* is often blazoned as the lion of
England, and in times when terms of
blazonry were comparatively few, it was
known as the *Leopard^*

The panels on the south and west are
decorated with geometrical patterns. The
one on the west face is the more carefully

* 6 inches by 4 inches.

t lo^ inches by 5 inches.

*X 9* inches by 8 inches.

ยง Each lion is 12 inches in length by 6 inches
high.

II The standard of William the Conqueror has two
lions *passant gardant* upon it.





1

 These shafts are 16J inches high,

2

 7j inches by 5 inches.
