designed, for the carver has made some
blunder in the design on the south side, and
the upper portion of the pattern is not
symmetrical.

It is reported that while the Parliamentarian
army occupied Lostwithiel, the troops
used the church as a stable for their horses,
and gave them water in the font, which they
mutilated. In Symonds' Diary1 we read:

{::comment} «« end lostwithiel-font »» {::/comment}
{::comment} «« begin three-cromwell-books »» {::/comment}

Cfirce CromtoeU TBoofes.'


One of their (the rebels') actions while they
were at Lostwithiel must not be forgotten.
In contempt of Christianity, religion, and the
church, they brought a horse to the font in
the church, and there, with their kind of
ceremonies, did, as they called it, christen
the horse, and called him by the name of
Charles in contempt of his sacred Majesty."

BESEECH you, be careful what
captains of horse you choose; what
men be mounted. A few honest men
are better than numbers. ... If you
choose godly, honest men to be
captains of horse, honest men will follow them,
and they will be careful to mount such. I had
rather have a plain russet-coated captain that
knows what he fights for, and loves what he
knows, than that which you call a gentleman and
is nothing else. I honour a *gentleman* that is so
indeed. ... It may be it provoked some spirit
to see such plain men made captains of horse. . . .
Better plain men than none; but best to have
men patient of work, faithfuls and conscientious
in employment."

" My troops increase; I have a lovely company.

. . . They are honest, sober Christians; they expect
to be used as men."

Such are typical sayings of the Great
Protector of England. They suggest, on
the one hand, his immense worldly wisdom,
his desire to honour merit, and his "eye for
battle "; on the other hand, they reflect his
stern and sure faith in the principles of
righteousness, and his wish to make them
living forces in the government of the world.
It is this twofold character of Cromwell which
has been crystallized by Lord Rosebery in
the phrase "a practical mystic."

At this moment of time, when the nineteenth
passes into the twentieth century, it
seems that the Anglo-Saxons, who are at
present the pioneers of the world, can profit
much from the study of him who in the
seventeenth century was "our chief of
men." Enemy to humbug and jobbery,
impatient of useless tyranny, observing the
needs of Britain at home and abroad, he
spoke the promptings of mind and heart.
He was not the man to be a mere com-

I. *Oliver Cromwell, and the Rule of the Puritans
in England.* By Charles Firth, M.A., Balliol
College, Oxford. Maps and illustrations. New
York and London: G. P. Putnam's Sons, 1900.
8vo., pp. xiv, 496, cloth and roxburgh. 5s. and 6s.

2.    *Oliver Cromwell.* By the Right Hon. John
Morley, M.P., D.C.L., LL.D. Portrait. London:
Macmillan and Co., Ltd., 1900. Crown 8vo., pp.
viii, 510. los. net. (Also an illustrated edition at
14s. net.)

3.    *Oliver Cromwell.* By Theodore Roosevelt.
Illustrated. Westminster: Constable and Co.,
Ltd., 1900. Crown 8vo., pp. xii, 260. los. 6d.
net.



1

 See p. 67 (August, 1644).
