mentator on affairs, however brilliant; he led
men and did deeds. Whether you regard
him as the instrument of fate or the moulder
of his destiny, it matters little. He is the
greatest ruler of England---at least, since the
Conquest; he made his country respect herself,
and made her to be respected by Europe.
There are some uglinesses in his career, as
Ireland cannot forget; that there are sour
and grim features about the hero's person is
only to be alleged fairly by those who discern
the man's heart beneath his power, his
private affections among his public methods.
The fact that no one could succeed him impaired
not a whit his influence upon the later
times. It is largely due to his work that our
minds to day cannot conceive the execution
of a head of the Royal Family or of an
Archbishop of the Church. "Happy is the
dynasty," said Lord Rosebery, "which can
permit, without offence or without fear, the
memory of a regicide to be honoured in its
capital." We may also revert to Cromwell
at this juncture of history to learn much in
the conduct of affairs---whether in the theory
of Greater Britain or in the art of warfare.
We certainly revert to him to find the image
of "a four-square man," buffeted by storm
of every kind from every quarter within and
without, but planted on the rock of principles
and confirmed in his faith by spiritual experience,
or, as he would say himself, " by
grace once given."

It is not surprising that pictures of this
image are forthcoming. A year ago there
was Lord Rosebery's masterly address which
adorned the gift of the fine statue at Westminster
by an " individual " who felt that
Cromwell's immortal memory should not be
made a football for contending factions in
the House of Commons! And now the
beautiful sketch by Mr. Frederic Harrison
and the laborious volumes of Dr. S. R.
Gardiner have been supplemented by the
issue of three interesting volumes by different
authors. The accident of their simultaneous
publication in the last year of the century is
only less notable and suggestive than that of
their peculiar association with the larger
English-speaking race across the Atlantic.

I. Mr. Firth's **"Cromwell."**{.scaps}

This addition to Messrs. Putnam's well-
known Heroes of the Nations Series " is

VOL. xxxvn.

a fine piece of work. It is, of course, a
truism that it is hard to say anything new
about Cromwell; but there are endless ways
of re-telling a story which is great. The
three books which we have read and arc
here commending together have, naturally,
much in common; and for that which is
the bulk of the story, we can only say that
the reader may go to any one of the volumes.
But Mr. Firth's book, to our mind, besides
being a thoroughly trustworthy and comprehensive
history of Cromwell and the
Puritan regime, would also serve one special
educational purpose that we would illustrate
by a concrete case. VVe think Mr. Firth
will deem the purpose a w^orthy one. The
present writer recently received an elaborate
letter from a sergeant in a Highland regiment
who had fought all through the South African
War. Among numerous shrew^d illustrations
of his plea for military reforms, he recalls, in
speaking of the " great waste " of horses and
the folly of officers in not supporting " that
splendid man. General French," the saying:

" God help Cromwell's trooper who did not take
care of his horse."

And the sergeant, likely to go to India from
Africa in the service of his Queen, sent home
for a book on Cromwell. The present writer
did not hesitate to recommend Mr. Firth's
volume, as giving a thorough and vivid
account of what, in a happy phrase, Marvell
called Cromwell's " industrious valour.'' He
explains, in detail but in clear language, how
and why Cromwell won his battles, as he
always did. Take, for instance, his account
of Naseby. You are helped, indeed, to
understand that victory by the portraits,
given in both \\ords and engraving, of that
quiet, tenacious, prompt commander Fairfax,
and also by the map (at p. 128), notwithstanding
an unhappy error in identifying the
forces. But, above all, you (especially if you
are an officer, commissioned or not, anxious
to make a serious study and business of warfare)
are able to see here why Cromwell and
his horsemen decided the fate of that day.
Again, the excellent maps given at pp. 198
and 256, to illustrate particular campaigns,
are " new models " of what such maps should
be. Not only do they and Mr. Firth's text
mutually explain one another, but they are
just such maps as, in a strange country, any
soldier should and could produce for himself.

c
