by the Homeland Association for the
Encouragement of Touring in Great Britain
and Ireland; and in 1899 a casual discovery
at Dulverton enabled the writer to furnish
this magazine with a paper entitled " A
Sacristan's Commonplace Book." It may be
added that the scenery is as varied as it is
dehghtful, wild moorland alternating with
beautiful woods and green pastures.

We first hear of Dulverton Fair in the
thirty-fourth year of the first Edward, which

the said Hawisia, daughter of Robert de
Shete, who, it is evident, held the key to the
position. Hawisia was thrice married, and
William was her third husband. Of her
first consort, Thomas de Pyn, it is recorded
that " he took and restrained all waifs and
strays that came on his lands, but by what
warrant or ancient custom, the jury knew
not." Hawisia married secondly Nicholas
de Boneville, and he held with her the manor
of Dulverton under John, son and heir of





may be the date of its institution, since it is
expressly stipulated that neither market nor
fair shall interfere with neighbouring markets
or fairs. It is to be held, subject to this
limitation, on the vigil, the day, and the
morrow of All Saints --- for the behoof,
primarily, at all events, of the lord of the
manor. It would seem, however, that the
lordship at this period did not reside in the
person of any single individual, so that the
statement requires some modification. The
grant was made to one William de Lughte-
burgh and Hawisia his wife for the life of

John de Bello Campo (Beauchamp), Baron
de Hache, and a royal ward, who held it of
the King in chief. On the death of Hawisia
in 1331 an inquisition at Dulverton showed
that she held two parts of the manor for her
life, and that a third part she held in her
own demesne in fee. The King's two-thirds
were then granted to William de Montacute,
Earl of Sarum, but in 1336 they passed by
the gift of the latter to the Priory of Taunton.
Nicholas de Boneville appears to have sold
his share to the Earl, for an inquiry made in
1340 led to the declaration that he had given
