and assigned it to the Priory of Taunton,
and that the Priory held it of William de
Montacute.

It is probable that, after the death of
Hawisia, Dulverton Fair ceased to be held,
and that it was not re-established until 1488.
On November 12 in that year the Prior was
empowered by patent to hold at his town of
Dulverton two fairs---one at the feast of St.
Peter the Apostle, for all the feast, and for
a day immediately preceding, and a day
immediately following it; and another fair
on the feast of St. Simon and St. Jude, and
for all the same feast, and a day before it,
and a day after it, yearly, with a court of
piepowder during the fair, and all profits and
fines, etc., belonging. On the dissolution of
the priory in the reign of Henry VIII. the
manor passed to the King, by whom it was
granted to the Earl of Oxford. The latter
succeeded, however, in exchanging it for
other lands, and it remained the property of
the Crown until, in 1556, it was sold by
Philip and Mary to William Babington, a
gentleman of the Privy Chamber. In 1568
Babington disposed of the manor to John
Sydenham, of Dulverton.

Whatever opinions we may entertain as to
the desirability of the Reformation and the
suppression of the monasteries, Dulverton at
any rate owed something to the supporters of
the Papacy. The deposition of the prior
entailed the surcease of the fair, about which
Edward VI. concerned himself not at all.
In 1555, however, Philip and Mary made a
new grant. The preamble recites that Forasmuch
as the town and borough of Dulverton,
in our county of Somerset, is very
populous, and in decay, and the poor inhabitants
now in great want, as is related to us
by several of the said town, who for the
amending and reparation of the same humbly
supplicate us by our gracious liberality for
the amelioration of the town and relief of
the poor: know that by our special grace
we concede to John Sydenham, Esq., John
Tout, John Casse, Roger Chilcote, Robt.
Vens, Robt. Catford, John Capper, William
Howcombe, Nicholas Trott, and Robt.
Westerne, and others, inhabitants of the said
town, their heirs and assigns, that they may
have and hold, etc., a market every Saturday,
all day, for the sale of cattle and other things.

and that they may also hold two fairs each
year---the first on the feast of St. Simon and
St. Jude, all the day of the said feast, and
the other fair on the feast of St. Peter and
St. Paul, all the day of the said feast,
annually." These were to hold all the
stallage, tolls and profits of the said fairs
and markets, with a court of piepowder and
its emoluments, and dispose of them for the
good of the inhabitants. When all but two
of those named were dead, the remaining
two were empowered to give over the management
to ten others, the most discreet and
honest inhabitants, for the same purposes
and intentions; and so again, when but two
of them remained, they were to do the like.
It is worthy of remark that Sydenham, Tout,
Chilcot, Catford, and Holcombe are well-
known Dulverton names -to day; and it is
reasonable to suppose that those now bearing
them are either lineally descended from, or
in some way connected with, the persons
mentioned in the charter.

From the year 1555 onward the fair seems
to have been held without intermission
during three following centuries. We learn
little or nothing, however, concerning its
vicissitudes, its progress or decline, until we
reach the fourth day of January, 1732-33,
when a general meeting of the goodmen
was held at the market-place, and by adjournment
at the White Hart pursuant to a public
notice given by the constables. Among
other orders agreed to by the majority of
those present was the following:

"That a book for to enter all accounts and
orders for the distribution of the money
Arising from the fifairs and marketts of this
town be immediately bought and paid for by
the present Constables, and that all Accounts,
Orders, and distributions of the money,
and what may relate thereunto be entered in
the said book, and alsoe a strong box to
keep that book, and other papers relating
thereunto be alsoe provided by them with
two Locks and Keys to be kept by the
Constables."

This identical book is still in existence,
and contains many curious particulars as to
the fair and its concomitants. Naturally the
most important document is a copy of the
Tudor charter, with a translation of the same;
but the student of human nature will, perhaps.
