an abbey, and known as "Gogarth." The
ruins consist of two gables, some low walls,
and the foundations of an abutting tower,
and cannot, by any stretch of the imagination,
be called picturesque. They are fairly
extensive in character, are very irregular in
plan, and a portion of them has been destroyed
in the gradual erosion of the limestone
cliff on which they stand by the action
of the sea. They have always been considered
of uncertain age, and tradition
assigns them an antiquity which their
architectural features do not bear out. The
buildings of which they form a part are said
to have been laid in ruins in the time of
Henry VHI. They are supposed to have
been at one time a residence of the Bishops
of Bangor, though it is more than probable
that they were a station for the monks who,
amongst their other duties, took charge of
the ferry from Conway to St. Tudno, the
village and parish on the Orme which are
co-eval with the abbey ruins themselves.
One writer speaks of the ruins as having
been an adjunct of Conway Abbey. They
show in plan a cruciform church, with lower
portion of tower on the northern side, and
with small side-chapel abutting. The remains
of domestic buildings are slightly
removed from those of the religious structure
at the south-eastern corner of the chancel.
A water-course, the only one on the Great
Orme, and fed by a spring on the top, passed
close by the abbey in a conduit, but the
supply is now used by a large domestic
mansion built in the grounds, and by the
new town in the bay. There have been
several interments within the precincts, as
recent discoveries have disclosed, and this is
a proof that the buildings are monastic
in character. They are mentioned by
Leland, who has preserved this record in his
"Itinerary ": "There is by Conwy water an
arme like a peninsula, called Gogarth, lying
against Priest-holme, and there be the ruines
of a place of the Bishops of Bangor." The
buildings and the land, which comprises
over three acres, and constitutes the only
freehold on the Orme apart from that of
Lord Mostyn, probably came into the hands
of the Bishops of Bangor after the dissolution
of the monasteries. The freehold was
quite recently vested in the hands of the

VOL. XXXVL

Ecclesiastical Commissioners. A careful
examination of the buildings shows that the
style of architecture is Late Perpendicular.
The windows were of two-lights for the most
part, and trefoil - headed, with horizontal
drip-stone mouldings. It was not known
until last summer (1899) that any of the
chiselled portions of the buildings remained,
but a careful examination of the de'bris of the
ruins resulted in the discovery of several
portions of mullions and columns, and of
door and window jambs, and of one nearly
complete window with its trefoil - headed
lights. These were sufficient to determine
the age of the whole structure. What are
left of these ancient stones are carefully
preserved, and the ruins, fragmentary as they
are, constitute one of the attractions of a
rapidly growing and pleasant seaside resort,
in which things modern are necessarily more
prominent than those that are ancient. It
is interesting to know that Gogarth is the
name by which anciently the Great Orme's
Head was known. There is a path up the
mountain from the ruins to St. Tudno's
Church, and which is known to this day as the
Monks' Path.

{::comment} «« end gogarth-abbey-llandudno »» {::/comment}
{::comment} «« begin antiquarian-news »» {::/comment}


Antiquarian

[ *We shall be glad to receive informationfrom our readers
for insertion under this heading.^*

**The **{.scaps}report on the excavations in the neighbourhood
of the Main, says the *Athenaum* of December
I, proves that the labours of the Limes Commission
have been rewarded, for the site of six of
the Roman forts which protected the frontier in
this district has now been determined. Of exceptional
interest are the river fortifications laid bare
at Stockstadt, not only because they are unique of
their kind in Germany, but also because their
position proves that the Main must have followed
a more westerly course during the Roman period
than it does now.

*^ ^*

Near Jerusalem a section of a Roman milestone has
been unearthed by the fellaheen workmen engaged
in digging for the grading of the new carriage-road
which is being constructed from Jerusalem northwards.
The stone bears fragments of inscriptions
which appear to record its erection by the
Emperor Vespasian, a.d. 69, and its restoration by
the Emperor Nerva, a.d. 96.

-05

The notes on East London Antiquities, which
have been appearing in the *East London Advertiser,*

D
