are to be reprinted in monthly parts of i6 quarto
pages, at 6d. per copy. Among the contributors
are well-known antiquaries, such as Mr. J. T.
Page, Colonel Prideaux, Major Baldock, and Mr.
Harland Oxley. Those who wish to secure copies
should send their names to the publisher of the
*■Advertiser,* 321, Mile End Road, E.

SALE.

Messrs. Sotheby, Wilkinson and Hodge sold
on Monday and Tuesday, the 26th and 27th ult.,
books and MSS. from the collection of the late
Mr. Newnham Davis. The following were the
most remarkable: Juliana Barnes's Booke of
Haukyng, Huntyng, etc., W. Copland, n.d., *£2^9 ',
*Directorium Humanae Vitae, Bidpay or Pilpay,
first edition in Latm, *circa* 1484, ^'24; Brathw'ait's
Ar't Asleepe Husband? and The Two Lancashire
Lovers, first editions, 1640, *£^0*; Brant's Ship of
Fooles, by Barclay, second edition, 1570, *£20* los.;
Breviarium Romanum, MS. on vellum, Saec. XIV.,
;f55; Breviarium secundum Usum Sarum, printed
at the expense of Margaret, mother of Henry VII.,
on vellum, with the date in the colophon, which
was not hitherto known, August 25, 1507, *£iy^*;
Breydenbach, Peregrinationes ad Montem Sion,
etc., first Latin edition, with the original woodcuts
intact, i486, *£60 \* Petrus Carmelianus, Poet
Laureate to King Henry VII., Carmen (relating to
the proposed marriage of Mary, third daughter of
Henry VII., to Charles, son of the Emperor Maxi¬milian,
afterwards the Emperor Charles V.), on
vellum, the only other copy known being the
Grenville in the British Museum., R. Pynson, *circa
*1514, *£160 \* the Hypnerotomachia PoliphiU of
Fr. de Columna, first edition, Venet., Aldus, 1499,
^78; Thomas Decker's Satiro-Mastix, 1602, *£g$\
*The Dead Tearme, or Westminster's Complaint for
Long Vacations, etc., 1608, *£'^i \* Dictes and Say¬ings,
Wynkin de Worde, 1528, *£^^*; B. Glanville,
De Proprietatibus Rerum, Englished by John of
Trevisa, first edition, a very fine copy, wanting a
blank leaf only and having a few leaves mended,
W. de Worde, 1496, ;^2i2; St. Jerome's Epistles
in Italian, by Matheo da Ferraro (slightly imper¬fect),
Ferrara, 1497, ;^4o; Horae B.V.M., illumin¬ated
MS. on vellum (French), 18 fine miniatures,
Saec. XV., *£2^0*; another, on vellum, with minia¬tures,
Saec. XV., 145; a Sarum Book of Hours,
MS. on vellum, Latin and English, 12 miniatures,
Saec. XV., *£So)* G. Hormanni Vulgaria (Latino-
Anglica), W. de Worde, 1530, *£2$*; Hortus Sani-
tatis, first French translation, Verard, *circa* 1501,
*£^9',* Josephus, Antiquitates Judaeorum, MS.,
tenth century, on vellum, *£69*; Littleton's Tenures
(Latin), the first edition and the first book issued
by Lettou and Machlinia in the City of London,
*circa* 1482, ;f400; Le Manuel des Dames, Paris,
Verard, s.d., *£ioo\* Historia B. Virginis Mariae,
53 woodcuts. Absque nota, ^39; Massinger's lost
play, " Beleeve as You List," 1631, the original
MS., from which the play was first edited by the
Percy Society in 1849, ^'69; Mercurius Britannicus
(Parliamentary Newspaper), complete, 1643-45,
^39; Meschinot, Les Lunettes des Princes, Paris,

J. du Pre, *circa* 1496, ^30; a collection of ten
Ancient Illuminated Miniatures, cut from Service
Books, *£106*; Missale Maguntinense, P. Schoefifer,
1483. ;^38; Missale Romanum, MS. with illumin¬ated
borders, Saec. XV., ;^49; Officium B.V.M.,
etc., MS. on vellum, illuminated, Saec. XV., *£1^9*;
Processionale Sarisburiense, Lond., 1554, *£z'^ \* Jo.
de Thwrocz, Chronica Hungarica, first edition,
1488, *£6*$; Der Ritter von Thurn, Basel, 1493,
/41; George Whetstone's Mirrour for Magistrates
of Cities, etc., 1584, *£22.* Total of two days' sale,
;^4,i68 I2S. 6d.---*Athenaum,* December i.

PUBLICATIONS OF ARCHAEOLOGICAL
SOCIETIES.

The *Transactions of the Glasgow Archaological Society,
*New Series, vol. iv., part i., have reached us.
Archbishop Eyre, the president of the society,
contributes a forcible address, pleading for the
" Preservation of Scottish Ecclesiastical Monu¬ments,"
and also a short paper on "The Seal
of Inchaffray," illustrated by an admirable plate
of the seal. "The Seals of the University of
Glasgow," with an excellent illustrative plate, are
described by Mr. G. W. Campbell. Mrs. Frances
Murray has a curious and most interesting subject,
very quaintly illustrated, in " Painted Wall Cloths
in Sweden," which shows how painted tapestry or
cloths such as were used in these islands in Eliza¬bethan
times---Falstaff speaks of his recruits as
being " as raggedas Lazarus in the painted cloth "
---were employed by the peasants in some parts of
Sweden as wall-coverings until comparatively re¬cent
days. The other contents of a well printed and
well illustrated part include "Notice of Armour
and Arms at Eglinton Castle, Three Scottish
Swords, etc.," by Mr. R. Brydall; " Note on the
Church of Saint Kentigerna, Inchcailleach, Loch
Lomond," by the Rev. W. H. Macleod; " The Old
Lands of Partick, and the Mill thereof," by Mr.
James White; "Notes on Two Copies of the
Solemn League and Covenant preserved in the
Hunterian Museum of the Glasgow University,"
by Professor Young and Mr. W. I. Addison;
' ' The Inscriptions on the Distance-Slabs of the
Vallum or Wall of Antoninus Pius," by Dr. James
Macdonald; the fourths.supplement to Dr. John
Ferguson's "Bibliographical Notes on Histories
of Inventions and Books of Secrets"; and "The
Old Church of St. Kentigern, Lanark," by Mr.
Hugh Davidson.

^ ^ ^

We have received the *Transactions of the Hull
Scientific and Field Naturalists' Club* for 1900 (vol. i.,
No. iii.), edited by T. Sheppard, F.G.S., and
J. R. Boyle, F.S.A. Every article, we are glad
to see, refers to matters and subjects of local
interest, and the whole volume testifies to much
good and careful work done by members of the
club. Among the more strictly archaeological
contents are Mr. Sheppard's interesting and in¬structive
study of '' Prehistoric Man in Holder-
ness"; the same writer's careful notes on various
bronze weapons and on a Roman vase---all found
in the district; and a facsimile and transcript by
