Mr. J. R. Boyle. F.S.A., of "A Haltemprice Document,"
viz., a receipt for ^4 6s. 8d. for tithe corn
paid in 1535 or 1536, which is the only document
known to be in existence that was actually written
by an inmate of the old priory at Haltemprice.
There are also many papers of interest to geologists
and naturalists on subjects which do not come
within our purview. The book is sold to nonmembers
by Messrs. A. Brown and Sons, Savile
Street, Hull, at the price of 2s. net---decidedly a
low price considering the value of the contents.

*^ ^ ^*

The *Journal of the Royal Society of Antiquaries of
Ireland* for the quarter ending September 30, 1900
(part iii., vol. x.), is also to hand. The principal
paper is a very full "Account of the Excavation
of Two Lake - Dwellings in the Neighbourhood
of Clones," by Dr. S. A. D'Arcy. It is interesting
to note that in the foundations of one cran-
nog were found extremely large and thoroughly
sound logs of black oak *chopped* into convenient
lengths. There were also some trunks of yew-
trees of great size in a splendid state of preservation.
The relics found were very numerous, and
excellent illustrative drawings are given. Mr. T. J.
Westropp describes " The Clog an Oir, or Beil
Shrine of Scattery Mr. James Mills gives " Sixteenth-Century
Notices of the Chapels and Crypts
of the Church of the Holy Trinity, Dublin," better
known now' as Christ Church Cathedral, mercilessly
"restored" years ago; and Mr. J. C.
Buckley sends "Notes on Boundary Crosses."
Short notes on a variety of subjects, an account of
the society's excursions, and other miscQllanea,
complete a capital and well-illustrated part.

^ ^ ^

Part iii. of the *Transactions oj the Shropshire ArchcB-
ological Society* for the current year, recently issued
to members, contains these papers: "On Two
Rectors of Whitchurch," by the Hon. and Rev.

G. H. F. Vane; "The Church Goods of Shropshire,
*temp.* Edward VI.," and "The Church-wardens'
Accounts of Uffington, 1627-1693," by
the Rev. W. G. D. Fletcher, F.S.A. There are
also an Index of the Papers published in the first
twenty-three volumes of the *Transactions* (1878-19001
and an Index of Authors. Ecclesiologists should
note that in the present'volume the whole of the
Edwardian Inventories of Church Goods relating
to Shropshire have been printed. The part also
contains an Index Locorum, a Glossary of Words
used in the Inventories, and some capital notes
on the Inventories themselves and on the Lichfield
and Hereford Sequences of Colome.

PROCEEDINGS OF ARCHAEOLOGICAL
SOCIETIES.

Society of Antiquaries.*---November* 29.---Viscount
Dillon, president, in the chair.---Mr. R. C. Clephan
and Colonel Hennell were admitted Fellows.---
The Earl of Halsbury, Lord Chancellor of England,
and the Hon. Alban Gibbs, M.P., were elected
Fellows under the statutes, cap. i., sec. v.---Mr.
C. H. Read, secretary, gave a new interpretation
of the use of the well-known object in the British

Museum called the Mold corslet. Mr. Read had it
recently mounted on a copper plate, so as to restore
it to its original form and proportions. From the
time it had come into the Museum in the year 1835
until now no attempt had been made to reconstitute
it. As soon, however, as each piece fell into its
proper place and the real size and shape of the
object became apparent, it was clear, both from
the proportions and the shape, that it could not
have been intended for a man. Mr. Read explained,
by means of a lantern-slide, the difficulties
in the way of such a supposition, and stated his
belief that it was intended for the covering for the
chest of a horse, viz., a poitrail or peytral *{anglice,
*a brunt, according to the president), such as was
not uncommonly found in the heavy plate armour
for horses in the sixteenth century.---Mr. Read's
opinion that the " corslet " belonged to the end of
the Bronze Age, or even to the beginning of the
succeeding Iron Age, was disputed by Sir Henry
Howorth, and a fine bronze shield from the
society's collection was produced in support of Mr.
Read's contention.---Mr. W. H. St. John Hope read
an account of recent excavations on the site of
St. Augustine's Abbey, Canterbury, with special
reference to the early Saxon church of St. Pancras.
---*Athencmim,* December 8.

*^ ^ ^*

British Archeological Association.---*November*
21.---Mr. C. H. Compton, vice-president, in the
chair.---The Rev. H. J. D. Astley read an interesting
resume of the proceedings of the recent congress
at Leicester, which will be published in the journal
in due course. Mr. Astley also read "Notes on
the Mound Dwellings of Auchingaich," by Mr.
W. A. Donnelly. The locality of these mounds is
in the north-west corner of Dumbartonshire, in that
picturesque and mountainous belt which runs
between Loch Lomond and the Gareloch on the
Auchingaich, one of the highest tributaries of the
Fruin Water. These mounds first attract attention
from their colour, as well as from their configuration,
the turf on their hillock surfaces being generally
of a deeper green, and their outlines suggesting
a more monotonous repetition of contour than is
found in any natural configuration of landscape.
They are grouped together in clusters of three and
four or half a dozen, almost touching one another
---as a matter of fact, many do touch each other;
they form a border to a quadrangular space about
100 yards square to the number of over forty. The
mounds are all more or less circular in shape,
standing about 5 feet high at the highest, but more
often not more than 3 feet 6 inches above the level
of the natural hillside, and present a remarkable
similarity to the homes of the beaver. Further off,
on the right bank of the Auchingaich, Mr. Donnelly
discovered another group, about 100 yards up the
mountain-side, of some seventeen or twenty more
similar mounds. Excavations were made in some
of them, which disclosed the existence of boulder-
built walls, rude and strong, each mound having a
narrow doorway, with the jambs invariably in their
original position, but the lintels displaced, and in
two instances lying on the doorstep. The general
characteristics of these mounds suggest the idea of

D 2
