their having been the homes of an early pigmy
race. In the discussion following the paper, the
chairman, Mr. Rayson, Mr. Folkard, Rev. H. J. D.
Astley, and others, took part. Various opinions
were expressed as to the probable value of the
discovery, but all were agreed in attributing the
construction of the mounds to human hands, but
by whom, for what purpose, and at what period,
they were constructed, it is impossible to say with
the data at present furnished. Further exploration,
which will be undertaken in due course, may enable
archaeologists to arrive at a definite conclusion.
*^ ^ ^*

**Glasgow Archeological **{.scaps}Society.---The annual
general meeting was held in November. Mr.
George Neilson, F.S.A. Scot., presided, and there
was a large attendance. The annual report of the
council was submitted. The report of the society's
committee on the investigations on the line of the
Antonine Wall, which was issued during the course
of last session, had met with a most favourable
reception from scholars at home and abroad. The
council recorded with regret the death of the
Marquis of Bute, who for many years took a lively
interest in the work of the society, and also the
death of Dr. James Macdonald, who from the date
of his becoming a member of the society, in 1884,
had taken a warm interest in promoting its prosperity
and usefulness. The council had received
intimation of the resignation of Archbishop Eyre of
the office of president of the society, and had
passed a resolution expressing their appreciation
of his valuable researches and his splendid services
to the society. On the motion of the chairman,
the report was adopted. Thereafter Mr. J. Romilly
Allen, F.S.A., delivered a lecture on "Early
Christian Monuments of the Glasgow District."
He dealt with the number of the monuments, their
geographical distribution, their decorative features,
the object of their erection, and their age. He
divided the monuments into three groups---an
earlier group, which were more near to the Celtic
pagan; a later group, which were more allied to
the Norman influence; and a middle group, showing
the Scandinavian influence of' the Viking
invasion.

A meeting of the Royal Society of **Antiquaries
**{.scaps}OF **Ireland was held at No. **{.scaps}6, St. Stephen's
Green, Dublin, on November 27. Professor
Wright, M.A., M.D., presided. In the absence
of the vice-president, Mr. Robert Day, J.P., a
paper written by that gentleman was read by the
chairman, the subject being, " A Gold Medal presented
to the Dublin Independent Volunteers, 1781,
by Colonel Henry Grattan, and another of the same
character, connected with the Dundalk Artillery;
also a Co. Meath Gold Medal. ' ' Lord Walter Fitzgerald,
M.R.I.A. (vice-president), read a paper on
"The Effigy of King Felim O'Conor in Roscommon
Abbey, and the Altar-tomb it rests on."
A third paper, on " The Antiquities of Caher Island,
Co. Mayo," was read by Mr. T. W. Rolleston.

*^ ^ ^*

The Sussex Archeological Society held a meeting
at Midhurst on November 27, Colonel Hollist
presiding. Mr. Philip M. Johnston, who lectured
on behalf of the society, first gave a description of
some of the interesting ^nural paintings still preserved
in old Sussex churches, his remarks being
illustrated by cartoons and drawings hung round
the room. These represented mediaeval art from
the eleventh to the sixteenth century, the most
interesting paintings, perhaps, being those discovered
on the walls of Hardham Church. He
then proceeded to describe various features of
special interest in some of the churches and other
buildings in West Sussex, with reference particularly
to the long-forgotten use of " low side
windows," and the existence in ancient times of
anchorites' cells. This part of the lecture was
illustrated by a series of lantern-slides, from Mr.
Johnston's own photographs and drawings. Mr.
J. Lewis Andre, F.S.A., afterwards gave a short
impromptu address on some points of antiquarian
interest in the district.

^ -05 ^

A meeting of the Newcastle Society of Antiquaries
was held on November 28, Mr. R. Welford
in the chair. The chairman read a note on the
name of Arthur's Hill, Newcastle. He said the
letter of Mr. Thomas Arthur read at the last meeting,
suggesting that the village owed its name to an
ancestor of his, Isaac Arthur, who built it, contained
an element of probability which seemed to
invite further inquiry. That inquiry had been
made, and it was not favourable to Mr. Arthur's
contention. Let them seriously consider the statement
of Dr. Bruce, which remained unchallenged
for nearly forty years---that Mr. Isaac Cookson,
the owner of land described as a quarry-field, gave
the village of stone houses which he erected the
name of his son Arthur. Mr. Isaac Cookson had
undoubtedly a son of that name. Dr. Bruce was a
young man of twenty or more at the time, and it
might be assumed that he knew perfectly well what
he was talking about. Mr. Cookson called the
*hill* after his son Arthur, and the first three streets
after his remaining three sons---Edward, John,
and William. It was named Arthur Hill on
Oliver's plan, but, just as Bulman village became
Bulman's village, popular custom transformed it
into Arthur's Hill.

^

At the meeting of the Society of Biblical
Archeology, held on December 12, a paper by
Mr. F. Legge, on " The Names of Demons in the
Magic Papyri," was read.

{::comment} «« end antiquarian-news »» {::/comment}
{::comment} «« begin reviews-and-notices-of-new-books »» {::/comment}


lRetifeto0 anD Ji3otices
of jQeto TBoofes.

*[Publishers are requested to be so good as always to
mark clearly the prices of books sent for review^ as
these notices are intended to be a practical aid to
book-buying readers.'\*

Chartres : Its Cathedral and Churches. By
H. J. L. J. Masse, M.A. With forty-seven
illustrations. London: *G. Bell and Sons, igoo.
*Crown 8vo., pp. viii, 120. Price 2s. 6d.

It was a happy thought which prompted Messrs.
Bell to extend their most interesting and useful
