"Cathedral Series" of handbooks to the great
cathedral and other churches of the Continent.
*Chartres*---the volume before us---is the initial issue
of this Continental series, and we are already
promised similar monographs on Rouen and
Notre Dame, Paris, in turn.

As the prime object of these books is to instruct
the student as well as aid the tourist to understand
what he sees, we would suggest that in future
editions of this volume, and those which are to
follow, the Latin and other foreign extracts (pp. 4,
8, II, 12, 75, etc.) should be accompanied by an
English translation, that the ordinary reader may
at least arrive at the gist of what the author means
to convey. The paragraphs relating to the polychromatic
art on pages 23, 48, 60, should be
brought a little more into harmony, as " a system
of painting utterly at variance with the spirit of
any Gothic cathedral " seems a little beside the
mark when we know how extravagantly the
mediaeval architect used this method of decoration,
with the object not alone to take away the
cold, monotonous whiteness of the stone and preserve
it, but also to develop the beauty and bring
out to perfection the proportions of the building,
as may be seen in the Royal Westminster tombs,
the chapter-house doorway, and the lovely Lady
Chapel at Ely, which Bishop Simon de Montacute,
unable to complete before his death, left as a
precious bequest to a monk, confident that he
would carry out the work to the accomplishment
of his heart's desire. The suggested allusion to the
*Vierge aux Miracles* as "Nigra sum sed formosa "
(p. 86 *note)* may be better explained in the words
of Tursellino on the venerable image of Our Lady
of Loreto: ' ' Her face is varnished with amber
giving a silver gloss, but darkened with the smoke
of lights, yet this very darkening (a token of antiquity
and religion) doth exceedingly increase the
majesty of her virginall countenance" *(History of
Our Blessed Lady of Loreto,* 1608, pp. 15, 16), or by
the Black (silver) Rood of Scotland reverenced at
Durham---*black* with the smoke of the many votive
tapers continuously burning before it. The print
of the fabric of the veil of Byzantine work might
fittingly have been accompanied by the portions of
the shrouds of SS. Savinian and Potentian---the
missionaries who sent Chartres its first bishops,
Altin and Eodald---preserved at Sens. The book
is lavishly illustrated by a large number of beautiful
"half-tones."

We might suggest to our enterprising publishers
the bringing out of an extra volume on this gem
among cathedrals, dealing exclusively with the
wonderful carvings which encrust the venerable
structure on every part---truly a Bible, the Bible
of Chartres in stone. For the rest the name of
the author of Gloucester and Tewkesbury is a
guarantee for the excellence of the work.

*if. if. if.*

The Story of Alfred the Great. Told by
Walter Hawkins and Edward Thornton Smith.
With ten illustrations. London: *Horace Marshall
and Son,* 1900. Pp. viii, 142. Price 2s. 6d.

This little book sets out the story of Alfred the
Great " for the general reader who has no time for
research, and the youthful reader who has no
interest in it." In ten well-arranged chapters it
describes the career and works of the great King,
and the well-known record is given with some
vividness, and in a simple and direct style of good
English prose which is welcome in these days of
books too hastily prepared. The authors assure
their readers that, though the pages are not encumbered
with footnotes and references to authorities,
yet the authorities have been consulted; and
it is evident that the sketch which they give is
based upon a large amount of scholarly research,
and so is, upon the whole, a trustworthy account.
At the same time we are bound to take the test
which they offer of "accuracy" and "careful
verification," and we find a few slips in detail
which the present condition of " Alfred literature "
should have obviated. For instance, Asser's
account is so clear that there is no reason (at
p. 10) for attributing to Osburgha and not to
Judith Alfred's early lessons in letters. We doubt,
subject to correction, the alleged policy (at p. 13)
of Swithun "in keeping the Saxon court and St.
Peter's on close terms of intimacy the traces of
any such European relation are of the scantiest
kind. The Alfred jewel is preserved (at p. 57), not
in the Bodleian Library, but in the new Ashmolean
Museum at Oxford. On pp. 26, 34, and 140, we
note trivial misprints for " cowardlily," "woeful,"
and "fitful." But these slight flaws apart, we
commend the volume as a popular story-book
about the greatest of English Kings, which is
certainly a great advance in style and carefulness
upon other books of its own kind. The authors,
steering between strict truth and a very proper
sentiment, seem to have hit the right mean in their
exposition of those justly popular stories which
adorn the fame of Alfred. The few photographic
views of scenes connected with Alfred's career are
also happily chosen, though we are bound to say
that there are particular spots at Winchester which
could be more usefully shown than the bird's-eye
view of the modern city given at p. 133. There is
still room for a book illustrated, as modern ways
and means readily allow, with pictures and figures
of scenes and relics more intimately connected with
Alfred's time. The closing chapter, with its estimate
of the King's character, is as true as it is
eloquent; in terms of very just enthusiasm it
claims that the story reveals "the most perfect
character in our annals. It blends so many virtues
in exquisite accord." The appeal of the authors
to Englishmen to make reversion to Alfred's type
their patriotic aim is wise and timely.

*if if*

The Book of John Fisher, Town Clerk and
Deputy Recorder of Warwick (1580-1588).
Transcribed and Edited by Thomas Kemp.
With Preface by the Hon. A. Lyttleton, Q.C.,
M.P. Warwick: *H. T. Cooke and Sons.* 4to.,
pp. XV, 216. Price not stated.

The Corporation of Warwick are fortunate in
the possession of this "Book of John Fisher,"
which Mr. Kemp with commendable care and
painstaking industry has now made accessible to
antiquaries. John Fisher was for twenty-seven
