that to be properly qualified to examine the
"Tales" "one should have a good foundation in
the direction of a knowledge of general chap-book
literature, of parallel stories, British and Continental,
to those of Gotham---both of temporary
[sic] and earlier dates---a due insight into folk-lore
and other matters." This seems indisputable, but
Mr. Stapleton continues; "In these directions the
present writer has to confess to virtually profound
ignorance." In view of such a confession, it is
impossible to treat the book as a serious contribution
to the literature of Folklore. It contains,
however, many extracts and other matter of considerable
value to students of Noodledom, although
ill-arranged, and sundry sketches and cuts of
interest, but there is no index.

* * *

*Manuscripts relating to the County of
Nottingham*{:.book-title} in the possession of Mr. James Ward.
Transcribed and edited by John T. Godfrey.
Portraits and facsimiles. London:
*H. Sotheran and Co.*, 1900. 4to., pp. xviii, 144.
200 copies. Price 21s. net. 25 L. P. copies.
{:.review-abstract}

This volume contains ninety-four documents,
letters and poems, several of which are from the
well-known collection of the late Sir Thomas
Phillipps, F.R.S. A few of the items, especially
one or two of the more modern papers, seem
hardly worthy of a place in the collection; but as
a whole the contents of the book will be found of
more than local interest. Among the many autographs
reproduced are those of Sterne, Gilbert Wakefield,
Robert Thoroton, Kirke White, Byron,
and many other notabilities of both local and
general fame. There are many portraits and
several interesting facsimiles. The frontispiece is
an excellent reduced facsimile in colour of a page
of a fourteenth-century Gradual of York. This
MS. is on vellum, has many illuminations, and
excepting the first leaf, which is torn out, is perfect
and in excellent preservation. A description of it,
with another page of facsimile, fills the first three
pages of the volume. The actual documents reproduced
or described are of very varying degrees
of interest. There are Civil War letters and orders
relating to operations in the neighbourhood of
Newark, Nottingham, and Belvoir Castle; letters of
Gilbert Wakefield, Kirke White, Byron, George
Cruikshank, Lord Palmerston, Duke of Newcastle,
Gladstone, and many others; probates of wills,
writs, powers of attorney, etc.

* * *

*The Minor Writings of Charles Dickens: a
Bibliography and Sketch*{:.book-title}. By Frederic G. Kitton.
"The Book Lover's Library." London:
Elliot Stock, 1900. 8vo., pp. xi, 260. Price 4s. 6d.
{:.review-abstract}

Mr. Kitton is an indefatigable worker in that
attractive field labelled "Dickensiana." This new
volume is a companion or sequel to his "Novels
of Charles Dickens," issued in 1897, and completes
the bibliographical history of the novelist's
writings from December, 1833, when his first
printed paper appeared in the *Monthly Magazine*{:.book-title}, to
his death in June, 1870. The results enshrined in
this charming little book---well printed and tastefully
bound---have not been obtained without much
labour. For the first time a complete list of
Dickens's contributions to periodical literature has
been compiled, and this has involved, among other
labours, a careful perusal of the set of nineteen
volumes of *Household Words*{:.book-title}, in which, as the contributions
were unsigned, the novelist's papers
could only be identified by internal evidence. It
is satisfactory to know that Mr. Kitton's list was endorsed
by the late Mr. Charles Dickens the younger,
who had gone over the same ground not long
before. The sections of the book are "Sketches
by Boz," concerning which much detailed and
curious information is given; "American Notes";
"Pictures from Italy"; "Hard Times," a title
chosen from fourteen proposed names; "Christmas
Books"; "Miscellaneous Prose Writings";
"Articles and Short Stories in English and
American Journals"---eight English and three
American; "Independent Publications with which
Dickens was associated as Editor or Contributor";
"Plays"; "Poems, Songs, and other Rhymes";
and an appendix touching on plagiarisms, unauthorized
continuations, etc. The whole volume
is most interesting and readable, while to bibliographers
it is indispensable.

* * *

We have received the *Reliquary*{:.book-title} for October. It
opens with a paper by the Rev. Dr. Cox on "The
Old and New Churches of St. Michael, Barton-le-Street,"
embodying Sir Stephen Glyn's notes, made
in 1863, on the Norman church, which was demolished
in 1870--71. "Leader Scott" sends
an account of "An Early Christian Chancel"---that
of the Church of Rosciolo, in the Abruzzi.
Mr. Richard Quick writes "On Bells," and Mr. J. Romilly Allen, F.S.A.,
on a "Bronze Bowl, found
at Needham Market." All the articles, as well as
the archaeological "Notes," are fully and well
illustrated. The numbers of the *Architectural Review*{:.book-title}
for October and November are to hand. In
the former we are glad to see that Mr. J. C. Paget
strongly condemns the new guard-house at the
Tower. Mr. F. H. Jackson has a charming article
on "Fountains," and Mr. R. Phenè Spiers concludes
his account of the "Great Mosque of the
Omeiyades, Damascus." In the November
number the chief attraction is an article by Mr. H. C. Corlette
on "Albi Cathedral," which, in
common with the other contents of both numbers,
is lavishly and beautifully illustrated.

* * *

The first number (November) of a new venture,
the *Imperial and Colonial Magazine*{:.book-title} (Hurst and
Blackett, Limited), price 1s. net, has reached us.
Its contents represent many parts of the Empire.
Professor Keane supplies the first part of an
"Historical Survey of British South Africa";
Sir George Birdwood writes on "The People of
India"; Sir Charles Dilke begins a series of papers
on "The Century in our Colonies," and Mr. E. A. Petherick
another on "The Colonization of
Australia." There are many other articles, including
an historical account of Colchester, stories
and notes, and a good supply of illustrations. The
new magazine should appeal to a very wide circle
of readers.