, *JANUARY,* 1901.

The Antiquary.

jQotes of t&amp;e ^ontb.

**The **{.scaps}British School at Rome was announced
to open in December. The director (Mr.
G. Rushforth) wishes it to be known that he
will be happy to explain the principal recent
discoveries relating to ancient and mediaeval
Rome to any University graduates and mem¬bers
of the teaching staff of public schools
who may be visiting Rome during the Christ¬mas
or Easter vacations. Those who wish
to avail themselves of this offer are requested
to communicate with the director as soon as
possible at the British Embassy.

*^ ^ ^*

Workmen engaged in drainage excavations on
the site of New Place, Stratford-on-Avon, have
lately come upon the original foundations of
the "Great House," as "New Place" was
called before Shakespeare lived there. One
of the walls, 3 feet 6 inches in thickness, is
of solid stonework, and marks the eastern
boundary of the house. Running parallel
an ancient brick wall was also discovered,
and the investigations being continued, a
mediaeval well, 24 feet deep and about 5 feet
in diameter at top, was found at the extreme
end. It is constructed of huge blocks of
stone nearly 2 feet in thickness. The house
was built by Sir Hugh Clopton in the reign
of Henry VH., and it is thought that this
was Sir Hugh's private well, as there are clear
traces of a walled passage to it from the house.
Pieces of old pottery and glass, a broken
sack botde, the material being exactly like
that used for Shakespeare's jug in the museum
VOL. xxxvii.

at the Birthplace, and other relics, have been
found, together with a number of stone Snows-
hill slabs, which probably formed the roofing
of the house. The old foundation walls and
well are to be preserved and shown, and in¬vestigations
are still going on.

cjj(»    ^

In 1895 the trustees of the British Museum
purchased a fine papyrus roll, written on both
sides, the obverse bearing a series of revenue
returns, dated in the " 7 " year of the Em¬peror
Claudius, B.C. 46-47, and the reverse
a series of magic tales written in Demotic.
The latter, with a fine facsimile, have been
published by the Clarendon Press, Oxford,
accompanied with a translation and com¬mentary
from the pen of Mr. F. LI. Griffith,
the Egyptologist. The stories are part of a
series which centre in a hero named Kha-
muas, High Priest of Memphis, the historical
original being the Prince Regent Kha*m-uas,
the son of Rameses II. The writer of these
stories has collected a great quantity of folk
legends which were current in Egypt at the
time when this manuscript was written, about
A.D. 70-80; and the papyrus may certainly
be described as one of the richest collections
of first century tales ever discovered.

■ ■ *^*

Several old record books connected with
Furness Abbey have been found in H.M.
Office of Stationery, and in the old Latin are
several references which have not before been
translated. In **a.d. **{.scaps}1138 the name of Furness
is shown to be derived from Furtherness, and
in 1266 mention is made of the death of
William de Middleton, Lord Abbot of Fur¬ness,
" who diligently ruled for thirty years or
more, and he died an old man well stricken
in years.'' On Abbot St. Benedict's Day,
March 21, 1269, Sir Michael de Furness was
drowned on Leven sands. He had dined at
the Priory of Cartmel, and was crossing to
the Manor of Addingham, now the rectory of
Dr. Hayman. In 1272, on the morrow of
the Purification of St. Mary (February 3),
the Justices in Eyre came to Lancaster, where
the Abbot of Furness was appointed Chief
Justice; but he took means to have himself
withdrawn by letters of the lord the King,
which was done. On March 25, 1276, it is
stated in another part of the record book that
Richard, Bishop of Man and the Isles, died,
