We have received another novelty in the shape
of No. I (November) of the *Architects' Magazine,
*price 6d., the official organ of the Society of
Architects, and practically a continuation of the
Journal of that society. Its interest is chiefly
professional. The numbers of the *American
Antiquarian and Oriental Journal* for September and
October, and November and December, are also on
our table. The former contains, *inter alia,* illus¬trated
articles on "Mexican Paper," by Professor
Starr, and on ' ' Ancient Aztec Cities and Civiliza¬tion,"
by Dr. Stephen Peet; *while* the contents of
the latter include papers on "Architecture in the
Stone Age," " Philippine Place Names," and
" The De Soto Expedition through Florida."

32


*CORRESPONDENCE.*

★ ★

Mr. Elliot Stock has issued a pretty and con¬venient
*George Herbert Calendar.*

CorcesponDence.

INSCRIPTION ON PANTILE.

To THE Editor.

About nineteen years ago on the roof of some old
cottages at Hadham Ford was found a pantile
which appears to be about a century or so old. On
the hollow side is stamped an inscription, which is
repeated four times, each covering a space of about
4 inches square, and each inscription was shown
upside down when the tile was fixed. Some of the
words are very clear and distinct, but the lines
appear to have been cropped at each end, which
renders it difficult to understand their meaning, and
some of the letters are not very plain. Perhaps
someone can give a clue respecting them, and
enable them to be deciphered. The following is
one of the inscriptions as nearly as it can be made
out:

I finde names
when he adjudge
may reade *** for ewa
foundt deade * and so
consist * by that or
ersonn misste * for
t spirit meeke save
thee holy catholihe
h an eare * heare * wha
m thov * hast *** that no
*m. * c * III * \ * II*

W. B. Gerish.

Bishop's Stortford.

ANCIENT CITY CUSTOM.

To the Editor.

The ancient ceremony referred to by you at
p. 325 of the *Antiquary* for November last, implies
that, in acknowledgment of our Corporate privi¬leges
conferred by Charter, we are still *nominally
*under the obsolete feudal law. This quit-rent
service dates, it is said, from about the year 1191,
for while King Richard was abroad on his crusade,
his brother. Prince John, acting as Regent, did by
some formal ceremony acknowledge or recognise
London as a *commune or* corporate body entitled to
self-government; and our first Mayor, named
FitzAlwyn, continued in office till, say, a.d. 1213.

The form of service called quit-rent is rendered,
not for possession or occupation, but as an acquit¬tance
or discharge from some menial personal
service dispensed with, which, however, might on
neglect be reinforced, but here is performed once a
year in dumb-show.

The Shrievalty is connected with the rent of
;^300 per annum, then due to the Crown for the
farm of Middlesex, dating from a charter of
Henry I., which sum would now represent a very
large amount in modern currency. It is to be
noted that the mythical *moors,* in Salop, and the
unknown forge in St. Clement Danes parish, are
both outside the City boundaries, so this personal
service did not implicate the City in its corporate
capacity, but only affected an official who might
be dismissed on occasion. And by a charter of
Henry III. in 1252-53, an allowance of *£y* was
made to the City by abatement from the /300 of
rent, nominally for some land not in the City's
possession; so the personal service is voluntary
and the alleged tenures are non-existent.

The Sheriff was originally and is still elsewhere
an officer of the Crown, and the transfer of such
appointment to a civic community appears to have
required some form of compensatory acknowledg¬ment
as to the obligations of feudal law; so when
London became self-governing by consent of the
Crown, this formal ceremony was originated as a
loop-hole for intervention on cause arising.

It may be noted that St. Clement's represents
the eastern end of Watling Street as it left the
City *vid* Fleet Street, while the moors represent
its western end, which stood at Wroxeter or
Uriconium in Shropshire; so the implied service
was connected with the shoeing of a royal retinue
or a progress, it being the office of a King's
Marshal of the Horse. This may point to the
survival in our Mayor or Provost of the Roman
official seated in London as president of Britannia
prima, whose jurisdiction would end where Watling
Street joined the frontier of Britannia Secunda,
now the Principality of Wales. Further, this
feudal service recognises us as the only unreformed
Corporation left.    A. Hall.

Erratum.---In the December number, p. 357,
col. I, line 22, for *fifteenth* read *thirteenth.*

Note to Publishers.---*shall be particularly
obliged to publishers if they will always state the price
of books sent for review.*

To intending *CO^TKI^UTOKS. ---Unsolicited mss.
will always receive careful attention, but the Editor
cannot return them if not accepted unless a fully
stamped and directed envelope is enclosed. To this
rule no exception will be made.*

*It would be well if those proposing to submit MSS.
would first write to the Editor stating the subject and
manner of treatment.*
